# acppred

By Henrique Pegoraro

Anticancer Peptide Prediction Software

## Setup

To install the acppred program, run the following command:
(Mamba is required)

```
$ make setup
```

`Conda` is a tool used on `Windows`, `MacOS` and `Linux` capable of creating and managing separate `environments`, each with their own files, which do not interact with other files outside their own `environment`.

The `ACPPred` program is used to predict the probability of `Anticancer activity` on any peptides sequences using either the classification model of `Logistic Regression` or `Random Forest`.

`CLI` or `Command Line Interface`, is a mechanism in coding used for interaction between the user and the program utilizing only the keyboard on the terminal. In the `ACPPred Program` the two CLI present are `preprocessed`, which runs both negative and positive controls peptides in the `data/raw` directory, runs them in the `preprocess.py` and saves them in a separated directory `data/processed`, and `train`, which takes tose files on the `data/processed` directory, runs the `train.py` and saves the them in the `data/models/model.pickle` path.

`Front-End` referes to `Graphical User Interface` or `GUI`, which is where the end user interacts with the program using navegation menus, design elements, images and graphics. `Back-End` refers to the managment of the program and requests generated by the `Front-End` by the author of the code, also known as Server Side. 

`Unitary Tests` is a way to verify the operation of small portions of the code, normaly done in portions to assure that it will run as expected when all the code runs at the same time. It is one of the cornerstones of fast and efficient coding.

- `Makefile`: centralize the commands for the program `make`.

- `environment.yml`: contains all packages that are installed, and their dependencies. This environment contains `Python 3.8`, `pip` and `jupyter`.

- `requirements.txt`: registers a list with all current packages being used in the `appred` program.

- `models.py`: used to create a classification model based on `Logistic Regression` or `Random Forest`.

- `predict.py`: used to predict the probability of anticancer activity for an input peptide using a pre-trained model.

- `preprocess.py`: compute the amino acid composition for a peptide sequence and returns a dictionary containing the percentage of each amino acid.

- `train.py`: Trains a classification model for anticancer peptide predicition from a amino acid composition CSV file and saves the model on a .pickle file. The trained model is returned by the function.

- `server.py`: codes the server where the prediction model and custom sequence are used by the user.

